GDA 8.40  (Jun/2014)
====================

User Highlights
---------------

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Jython Console

 - Ctrl-d and ctrl-z can be used to clear the current command without executing. Can be used to stop entering multiline commands and will escape the "stuck on '...'" problem seen when loops/blocks are not entered correctly.

* Jython Autocomplete

 - Tab will also autocomplete with similar behaviour to ctrl-space in previous releases.
 - Tab will still insert tab character when after only whitespace.
 - Autocomplete is now available from anywhere on a line (rather than just first word)
 - Tab/space/enter can all be used to enter currently selected completion (rather than top option being used for all but enter).

* JythonConsoleView buttons simplified.

 - Now single button to pause scans and scripts.
 - New button to complete scans after current data point
 - New button to abort all scans, scripts and commands without calling stop on all beamline hardware

* Improvements to the underlying mechanisms which abort scans and hold the beamline's scan/script status.

Fixes
~~~~~

Developer
---------

Important
~~~~~~~~~

* GDA-5691 and sub-tickets: significant refactoring to how Scan status is stored, and how scans and other commands are stopped/halted/aborted:

 - global scan status has been removed, now each scan instance holds its own state. The Jython Server will return the status of the last scan run
 - Scan status made much richer, and now has a state machine to enforce allowed transitions
 - Scans now have a 'requestFinishEarly' method to make the scan finish after the current data point but still go through the normal shutdown mechanism
 - PanicStop replaced by a beamlineHalt command which does the same thing as before, but also there is a abortCommands method whichstops scans and scripts but does not call stop on all beamline hardware
 - GUI buttons simplified for users, script and scan buttons merged.
 - Script interrupt static boolean replaced. Now Scripts can only be aborted using the abortCommands or beamlineHalt methods.
 - Changes to interface and method names in the InterfaceProvider sub-interfaces
 - Javadoc explaining the difference between atScanEnd and atCommandFailure improved 

* GDA-5883 Scan.getScanNumber() and ScanDataPoint.getScanIdentifier() now both return ints. Before Scan used a Long and ScanDataPoint used a String for the same information.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Incremental Elog Entries

 - Elog Entries can be added to before being posted using

  - addText(String text)
  - addImage(Sting imgPath)
  - addImage(Sting imgPath, String comment)
  - addImage(String[] imgPaths)

 - and then using post() or postAsync()
 - existing methods are left unchanged
 - to add images, gda.elog.imageurl needs to be added to java.properties with http://rdb.pri.diamond.ac.uk/php/elog/cs_logonlyimageupload_ext_bl.php

Fixes
~~~~~
* Event Service

 - Fixed case where EventService could be returned even when it could not be configured correctly. Exceptions are now passed up rather than caught and logged.

How to create notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Run the git command:``git log --no-merges --pretty=format:\%aD\, \%an\, \* %s [%an - %h] %b\ 8.40rel..HEAD > /tmp/reponame.version.csv``

2. Open up in excel or the likes,
   
   a. Sort by name, as we tend to work in our pet areas and this makes categorisation simpler (also message quality is likewise correlated).
   b. Add an empty column to fill with single character tags. These will become component headings. e.g.  'u' for user 'dz' for developer+zebra.
   c. Sort by the tab columns

3. Cut each tag group paste to the release notes file under the appropriate heading.

4. Fixup the reStructuredText.

5. Tweak the text of the user highlights at the top.


