GDA 8.46  (Jun/2015)
====================

User Highlights
---------------

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fixes
~~~~~

NAPI migration
--------------

The Java version of the API provided by the NeXus committee has been used in GDA for reading, writing and linking data.
There are a number of issues with this API which drives a timely migration from its direct use:

   * It possesses a hidden state
   * Diamond Light Source is only user
   * Java 8 issue (`GDA-6112 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6112>`_)
   * buggy string handling
 
A multi-stage plan was carried out to extricate the NAPI usage in GDA, under ticket `GDA-6113 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6113>`_

   #. redirect users of NAPI constants to NexusGlobals and remove other users
   #. reduce and remove constants usage in NexusGroupData and by using NGD
   #. move NexusException class, and replace with new one
   #. replace NeXusFileInterface with NexusFileInterface
   #. eliminate all uses of constants
   #. remove nxclassio package
   #. isolate old NAPI classes to napi sub-package
   #. create new NAPI based lazy loader and saver
   #. create new Nexus File interface and implement a NAPI based version
   #. refactor to use new Nexus file interface [rewrite ``NexusUtils``, change interfaces ``ComponentWriter``, ``ScannableWriter``, and ``INeXusInfoWriteable``]
   #. fix up many bugs
   #. tidy and remove old classes
   #. port some old Jython usage

This has resulted in changes in many projects and repositories.
 
Future changes planned

   * Investigate any thread-safety issues for new interface
   * Implement NexusFile interface using the Java bindings for HDF5
   * Auto-generate interfaces and classes from NXDL for all Nexus classes to be used
     for loading and validating then for saving. These will include the application definitions.
   * Switch the underlying HDF5 library to a SWMR version.

Developer
---------

Important
~~~~~~~~~

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- A screenshot tool has been added to the client. See JIRA ticket `GDA-6110 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6110>`_ for details.

Fixes
~~~~~
- ``rscan`` command has been fixed when using multiple axis. See JIRA ticket `GDA-6145 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6145>`_ for details.
- EpicsMonitor has been fixed to allow observers to be notified when a enum PV is changed. See JIRA ticket `GDA-6138 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6138>`_ for details.
- ImageMode enum has been moved out of ADBase to a separate file to allow its use in Jython See JIRA ticket `GDA-6152 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6152>`_ for details.

How to create notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Run the git command: ``git log --no-merges --pretty="format:%aD, %an, * %s [%an - %h] %b" gda-8.42rel..gda-8.44rel > /tmp/reponame.version.csv``

2. Open up in excel or the likes,
   
   a. Sort by name, as we tend to work in our pet areas and this makes categorisation simpler (also message quality is likewise correlated).
   b. Add an empty column to fill with single character tags. These will become component headings. e.g.  'u' for user 'dz' for developer+zebra.
   c. Sort by the tab columns

3. Cut each tag group paste to the release notes file under the appropriate heading.

4. Fixup the reStructuredText.

5. Tweak the text of the user highlights at the top.

