GDA 8.48  (Aug/2015)
====================

User Highlights
---------------

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fixes
~~~~~
- The behaviour of the scan plot view at the start of a new scan has been corrected. See JIRA ticket `GDA-6168 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6168>`_ for details.

NAPI migration
--------------

Continuing the migration away from NAPI, the following changes have occurred.

   * An implementation of NexusFile using the Java bindings for HDF5 has been added.
   * The NAPI implementation is no longer in use with the HDF5 implementation taking its place.
   * The HDF5 library has been switched to a more recent version that includes the SWMR functionality.

Planned changes for the future

   * Incorporate SWMR functionality into GDA
   * Investigate thread safety issues for the NexusFile interface
   * Auto-generate interfaces and classes from NXDL for all Nexus classes to be used
     for loading and validating then for saving. These will include the application definitions.


Developer
---------

Important
~~~~~~~~~
- Replaced ScanFileHolder with dnp.io.load in scan processing scripts. See JIRA ticket `GDA-6177 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6177>`_ and Gerrit change set `780 <http://gerrit.diamond.ac.uk:8080/#/c/780/>`_ for details

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Enable plot server to use RMI. The example beamline has been updated to show the necessary Spring configuration. See JIRA ticket `GDA-6171 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/GDA-6171>`_ for details.

Fixes
~~~~~

How to create notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Run the git command: ``git log --no-merges --pretty="format:%aD, %an, * %s [%an - %h] %b" gda-8.46rel..gda-8.48rel > /tmp/reponame.version.csv``

2. Open up in excel or the likes,

   a. Sort by name, as we tend to work in our pet areas and this makes categorisation simpler (also message quality is likewise correlated).
   b. Add an empty column to fill with single character tags. These will become component headings. e.g.  'u' for user 'dz' for developer+zebra.
   c. Sort by the tab columns

3. Cut each tag group paste to the release notes file under the appropriate heading.

4. Fixup the reStructuredText.

5. Tweak the text of the user highlights at the top.

