GDA 9.0 and GDA 8.52  (expected release: Mar/2016)
==================================================

User Highlights
---------------

Development of GDA has been split into 2 streams.

GDA 9 is the starting point for various architectural changes to the product.

* For users, the most immediate visible change is that the GDA client is now based on the Eclipse 4 framework.
* For developers, the GDA server is now based on OSGI services. 

GDA 8 will continue to be supported for some time, but the focus of development is GDA 9.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fixes
~~~~~

Developer
---------
The uk.ac.gda.example plugin has been split into two with the server based packages being in the new uk.ac.gda.example.server and the client code remaining in the original.
This is to remove one of the links that causes server code to have to depend on client plugins. 

The RCPPlotter class has been moved from the gda-client plugin into the gda.analysis plugin to break the dependency of gda.epics on gda.client. 
This also affects uk.ac.gda.beamline.i12 and uk.ac.gda.devices.pixium whose manifest files now require the uk.ac.gda.analysis bundle.

Important
~~~~~~~~~

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~
-Added ScannableMotorWithDemandPosition to return both the actual and demand positions See JIRA ticket `ARPES-319 <http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/ARPES-319>`_ and Gerrit change set `1392 <http://gerrit.diamond.ac.uk:8080/#/c/1392/>`_ for details. This class can be used as a direct replacement of ScannableMotor

Fixes
~~~~~

How to create notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Run the git command: ``git log --no-merges --pretty="format:%aD, %an, * %s [%an - %h] %b" gda-8.46rel..gda-8.48rel > /tmp/reponame.version.csv``

2. Open up in excel or the likes,

   a. Sort by name, as we tend to work in our pet areas and this makes categorisation simpler (also message quality is likewise correlated).
   b. Add an empty column to fill with single character tags. These will become component headings. e.g.  'u' for user 'dz' for developer+zebra.
   c. Sort by the tab columns

3. Cut each tag group paste to the release notes file under the appropriate heading.

4. Fixup the reStructuredText.

5. Tweak the text of the user highlights at the top.

